Quick install:

./configure
make
make install


Install from CVS:

autoconf
./configure
make
make install

Building RPM-package:
rpmbuild -ta haskelldb-....tar.gz

Requirements:

- GHC 6.2 or 6.2.1 (if you want GHC support)

- GNU Make

- Hugs November 2003 (if you want Hugs support)

A database driver, at least one of:

- HSQL (http://htoolkit.sourceforge.net/)

  It is preferrable to have HSQL installed
  in the GHC and Hugs library directories.

  When building HSQL, remember to enable all drivers that you are
  going to use. Example of building and installing HSQL :

  $ ./configure --enable-odbc --enable-mysql --enable-postgres
  $ make
  $ make install

  * Extra requirements for Windows
  
    - Cygwin (found at www.cygwin.com)
      Except the default packages you will also need Make and GCC
  
    - Microsoft Data Access Components (MDAC) SDK (found at 
      http://www.msdn.com/download)
  
- wxHaskell (http://wxhaskell.sourceforge.net/)

  wxHaskell's database support requires wxWidgets built with ODBC
  support, which is not enabled by default.


Database support:

- HSQL ODBC

  HaskellDB should work with all ODBC drivers, assuming that the database
  supports the queries generated by HaskellDB. This does for exaemple 
  currently not include the stable version of MySQL, see below.

- HSQL MySQL

  HaskellDB only works with MySQL version >= 4.1 since earlier
  versions don't support nested subqueries.

  It is currently not possible to build HSQL's MySQL support under
  Windows. If you figure it out, let us know.

  MySQL only supports transactions on transaction-safe table types,
  such as InnoDB and BDB. The default table type, MyISAM, does not
  support transactions. See the MySQL manual for more information.

  MySQL 4.1 does not support intersect.

- HSQL PostgreSQL

  Works.

- HSQL SQLite

  Works, but since SQLite is untyped, DBDirect reports the types of
  all columns in SQLite databases as String, even if some other type
  was used when the table was created. To work around this, create the
  database description modules using

  Database.HaskellDB.DBSpec.DBSpecToDBDirect.dbInfoToModuleFiles

  There are some problems with escaping of certain characters
  (whitspace and backslash) for SQLite, sicne SQLite does not expect 
  them to be escaped.

- wxHaskell

  Works only with GHC. Does not work with MySQL as far as we know.
